## About the Project

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.


###### Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID

###### Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations

###### Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and log datasets, we create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

###### Fact Table

songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

###### Dimension Tables

users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

###### How to run the Python Scripts

Run create_tables.py to create database and tables.
Run test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.
Run etl.ipyb. Run test.ipynb to confirm that records were successfully inserted into each table
RUn etl.py. Run test.ipynb to confirm records were successfully inserted into each table.


NOTE: You will not be able to run test.ipynb, etl.ipynb, or etl.py until you have run create_tables.py at least once to create the sparkifydb database, which these other files connect to.

###### Files in te repository

In addition to the data files, the project workspace includes six files:

test.ipynb displays the first few rows of each table to let we check your database.

create_tables.py drops and creates your tables. We run this file to reset your tables before each time we run our ETL scripts.

etl.ipynb reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.

etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. We can fill this out based on our work in the ETL notebook.

sql_queries.py contains all sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above

